The [Entities' creation](scenario-creation.md) section provided documentation on `Pipeline^` creation. Now that we know
how to create a new `Pipeline^`, this section focuses on describing the pipeline's attributes and utility methods for
using pipelines.

In the following, it is assumed that [`my_config.py`](../my_config.py) module contains a Taipy configuration
already implemented.

# Pipeline attributes

The pipeline creation method returns a `Pipeline^` entity. It is identified by a unique identifier `id` that
is generated by Taipy. A pipeline also holds various properties that are accessible as an attribute of the pipeline:

- _config_id_: The id of the pipeline configuration.
- _subscribers_: The list of Tuple(callback, params) representing the subscribers.
- _properties_: The complete dictionary of the pipeline properties. It includes a copy of the properties of
  the pipeline configuration, in addition to the properties provided at the creation and at runtime.
- _tasks_: The dictionary holding the various tasks of the pipeline. The key corresponds to the config_id of the
  task while the value is the task itself.
- _parent_id_: The identifier of the parent, which can be a pipeline, scenario, cycle or None.
- _owner_id_: The identifier of the owner, which can be a pipeline, scenario, cycle or None.
-   _**version**_: The string indicates the application version of the pipeline to instantiate. If not provided, the current version is used.
- Each property of the _properties_ dictionary is also directly exposed as an attribute.
- Each nested entity is also exposed as an attribute of the pipeline. the attribute name corresponds to the
  *config_id* of the nested entity.

!!! Example

    ```python linenums="1"
    import taipy as tp
    from datetime import datetime
    import my_config

    pipeline = tp.create_pipeline(my_config.sales_pipeline_cfg, name="Pipeline for sales prediction")

    # The config_id is an attribute of the pipeline and equals "pipeline_configuration"
    pipeline.config_id
    # There was no subscription, so subscribers is an empty list
    pipeline.subscribers # []
    # The properties dictionary equals {"name": "Pipeline for sales prediction"}. It contains all the properties,
    # including the `name` provided at the creation
    pipeline.properties # {"name": "Pipeline for sales prediction"}
    # The `name` property is also exposed directly as an attribute. It equals "Pipeline for sales prediction"
    pipeline.name
    # The training task entity is exposed as an attribute of the pipeline
    training_task = pipeline.training
    # The predicting task entity as well
    predicting_task = pipeline.predicting
    # The data nodes are also exposed as attributes of the pipeline.
    current_month_data_node = pipeline.current_month
    ```

# Get pipeline by id

The method to get a pipeline is from its id by using the `taipy.get()^` method :

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
import my_config

pipeline = tp.create_pipeline(my_config.sales_pipeline_cfg)
pipeline_retrieved = tp.get(pipeline.id)
pipeline == pipeline_retrieved
```

Here the two variables `pipeline` and `pipeline_retrieved` are equal.

# Get pipeline by config id

A pipeline can also be retrieved from a scenario by accessing the pipeline's config_id of the scenario.

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
import my_config

scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg)

# Get the pipelines by config id
sales_pipeline = scenario.sales
production_pipeline = scenario.production
```

# Get all pipelines

All the pipelines can be retrieved using the method `taipy.get_pipelines()^`. This method returns the list of all
existing pipelines.

# Delete a pipeline

A pipeline can be deleted by using `taipy.delete()^` which takes the pipeline id as a parameter. The deletion is
also propagated to the nested tasks, data nodes, and jobs if they are not shared with any other pipeline.

[:material-arrow-right: The next sections show the task management](task-mgt.md).
