The [previous section](scenario-creation.md) provided documentation on `Scenario^` (and `Pipeline^`) creation. Now
that we know how to create a new `Scenario^`, this section will describe the scenario's attributes and the various
utility methods.

In this section, it is assumed that <a href="./code_example/my_config.py" download>`my_config.py`</a>
module contains a Taipy configuration already implemented.

# Scenario attributes

The scenario creation method returns a `Scenario^` entity. It is identified by a unique identifier `id` that was
generated by Taipy. A scenario also holds various properties, each accessible as an attribute of the scenario:

- _**config_id**_ is the id of the scenario configuration.
- _**creation_date**_ corresponds to the date-time provided at the creation.
- _**is_primary**_ is True if it is a primary scenario. False otherwise.
- _**subscribers**_ is the list of Tuple(callbacks, params) representing the subscribers.
- _**version**_: The string indicates the application version of the scenario to instantiate. If not provided,
    the current version is used. Refer to the [version management](../versioning/index.md) page for more details.
- _**properties**_ is the complete dictionary of the scenario properties. It includes a copy of the properties
    of the scenario configuration, in addition to the properties provided at the creation and at runtime.
- _**cycle**_ is the cycle of the scenario.
- _**pipelines**_ is a dictionary holding the various pipelines of the scenario. The key corresponds to the
    pipeline's _config_id_ (while the value is the pipeline itself).
- Each property of the _**properties**_ dictionary is also directly exposed as an attribute.
- Each nested entity is also exposed as an attribute of the scenario. The attribute name corresponds to the
    _config_id_ of the nested entity.

!!! Example

    ```python linenums="1"
    import taipy as tp
    from datetime import datetime
    import my_config

    scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg,
                                  creation_date=datetime(2022, 1, 1),
                                  name="Scenario for January")

    # The config_name is an attribute of the scenario and equals "scenario_configuration"
    scenario.config_name
    # The creation date is the date-time provided at the creation. It equals datetime(2022, 1, 1)
    scenario.creation_date
    # The is_primary property equals `True` since it is the only scenario of the cycle.
    scenario.is_primary
    # There was no subscription, so subscribers is an empty list
    scenario.subscribers # []
    # The properties' dictionary equals {"name": "Scenario for January"}. It contains all the properties,
    # including the `name` provided at the creation
    scenario.properties # {"name": "Scenario for January"}
    # The `name` property is also exposed directly as an attribute. It equals "Scenario for January"
    scenario.name
    # the sales pipeline entity is exposed as an attribute of the scenario
    sales_pipeline = scenario.sales
    # the production pipeline entity as well
    production_pipeline = scenario.production
    # All the tasks are also exposed as attributes, including the training task entity
    training_task = scenario.training
    # The six data nodes are also exposed as attributes of the scenario.
    current_month_data_node = scenario.current_month
    ```

Taipy exposes multiple methods to manage the various scenarios.

# Get a scenario by id

The first method to get a scenario is from its id by using the `taipy.get()^` method:

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
import my_config

scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg)
scenario_retrieved = tp.get(scenario.id)
scenario == scenario_retrieved
```

Here, the two variables `scenario` and `scenario_retrieved` are equal.

# Get all scenarios

All the scenarios can be retrieved using the method `taipy.get_scenarios()^`. This method returns the list of all
existing scenarios. If an optional cycle is given as a parameter, the list contains all the existing scenarios of the
cycle. If an optional tag is provided as a parameter, the list contains all the existing scenarios tagged with the tag
provided.

# Get primary scenarios

The `taipy.get_primary()^` method returns the primary scenario of the cycle given as a parameter.

`taipy.get_primary_scenarios()^` returns the primary scenarios for all the existing cycles.

# Promote a scenario as primary

To set a scenario as _primary_, the `taipy.set_primary()^` method must be used. It promotes the scenario given as a
parameter to the _primary_ scenario of its cycle. If the cycle already had a _primary_ scenario it will be demoted:
It will no longer be _primary_ for the cycle.

# Delete a scenario

A scenario can be deleted by using `taipy.delete()^` which takes the scenario id as a parameter. The deletion is also
propagated to the nested pipelines, tasks, data nodes, and jobs if they are not shared with any other scenarios.

If there is more than one scenario in the cycle, an error will be raised if you try to delete a primary scenario.
You must promote another scenario as primary before deleting the primary one. On the other hand, if there is only
one scenario in the cycle, the primary scenario can be deleted, which will also delete its cycle.

# Compare scenarios

You can compare two or more scenarios, created from the same scenario configuration, by using
`taipy.compare_scenarios()^`. This function accepts two or more scenarios to be compared, you can also provide the
data node config id to specify which data nodes from the scenarios you want to compare.

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
from datetime import datetime
from my_config import *

tp.Core().run()

previous_month_scenario = tp.create_scenario(monthly_scenario_cfg)
previous_month_scenario.current_month.write(datetime(2020, 1, 1))
previous_month_scenario.submit()

current_month_scenario = tp.create_scenario(monthly_scenario_cfg)
current_month_scenario.current_month.write(datetime(2020, 2, 1))
current_month_scenario.submit()

tp.compare_scenarios(previous_month_scenario,
           current_month_scenario,
           data_node_config_id="sales_predictions")
```

!!! Important
    To specify how to compare scenarios on data nodes, you need to define comparison functions.
    Please refer to the [Scenario Config](../config/scenario-config.md) page.

# Tag or untag a scenario

A scenario can have multiple tags. You can add a tag to a scenario using `taipy.tag()^`. Alternatively, you can use
the `Scenario.add_tag()^` method.

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
from my_config import *

scenario = tp.create_scenario(monthly_scenario_cfg)
tp.tag(scenario, "my_tag")
# or
scenario.add_tag("my_tag")
```

You can retrieve all scenarios that have a specific tag using `taipy.get_scenarios()^` with
the _tag_ parameter.

Two scenarios belonging to the same cycle can not have the same tag. If a tag
is already used by an existing scenario from the same cycle, it will be removed from
that scenario and reassigned to the new scenario.

You can remove a tag of a scenario using `taipy.untag()^`. Alternatively, you can use the
`Scenario.remove_tag()^` method.

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
import my_config

scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg)
tp.untag(scenario, "my_tag")
# or
scenario.remove_tag("my_tag")
```

You can define a list of authorized tags in the scenario configuration by specifying the value of _authorized_tags_.
From the scenarios that are created from that configuration, if you add a tag that is not authorized, an exception will
be raised.

# Export a scenario

You can export a scenario with its related entities in `JSON` format into a folder using `taipy.export_scenario()^`.
This method takes as parameters the scenario id and the path to the export folder.

!!! warning

    The `folder_path` will be **overwritten** if it does exist.

Alternatively, you can use the `Scenario.export()^` method.

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
import my_config

scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg)

tp.export(scenario.id, folder_path="./monthly_scenario")
# or
scenario.export(folder_path="./monthly_scenario")
```

# Cycle attributes

As we saw in the previous chapter, the `Cycle^` creation is indirectly triggered by the scenario creation method.
A cycle is identified by a unique identifier `id` that was generated by Taipy. A cycle also holds various
attributes and properties, each accessible as an attribute of the cycle:

-   _**frequency**_ corresponds to the cycle `Frequency^`. It is populated at the cycle creation using the
    scenario frequency that triggered the cycle creation.
-   _**creation_date**_ corresponds to the date-time of the creation of this cycle.
-   _**start_date**_ corresponds to the date and time of the start of this cycle.
-   _**end_date**_ corresponds to the date and time of the end of this cycle.
-   _**name**_ corresponds to a user readable name of this cycle.
-   Each property of the _**properties**_ dictionary is also directly exposed as an attribute.

!!! Example

    ```python linenums="1"
    import taipy as tp
    from datetime import datetime
    import my_config

    scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg,
                                  creation_date=datetime(2022, 1, 3))
    cycle = scenario.cycle

    # The frequency is an attribute of the cycle. In the example, it equals
    # Frequency.MONTHLY since my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg is used has been
    # used to instantiate scenario and cycle.
    cycle.frequency
    # The creation date is the date-time provided at the creation. It equals datetime(2022, 1, 3)
    cycle.creation_date
    # The start date is the date-time of the start of the cycle. It equals datetime(2022, 1, 1)
    cycle.start_date
    # The end date is the date-time of the end of the cycle. It equals datetime(2022, 1, 31)
    cycle.end_date
    # By default, the `name` is None. It can be set manually.
    cycle.name = "January cycle"
    ```

# Get a cycle by id

The basic method to get a cycle is from its id by using the `taipy.get()^` method:

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp
import my_config

scenario = tp.create_scenario(my_config.monthly_scenario_cfg)
cycle = scenario.cycle
cycle_retrieved = tp.get(cycle.id)
cycle == cycle_retrieved
```

Here, the two variables `cycle` and `cycle_retrieved` are equal.

# Get all cycles

All the cycles can be retrieved using the method `taipy.get_cycles()^`. This method returns the list of all
existing cycles.

# Delete a cycle

A cycle can be deleted by using `taipy.delete()^` which takes the cycle id as a parameter. The deletion is also
propagated to the nested scenarios, pipelines, tasks, data nodes, and jobs if they are not shared with any other
cycles.

[:material-arrow-right: The next section presents the pipeline management](pipeline-mgt.md).
