This page explains how to use scenario comparators to compare alternative data between
scenarios.

# Main principles

In Taipy, comparing a scenario means comparing their data nodes. The global idea is to
use a user defined function that takes list of data to compare and returns a comparison
result. The function can return any data type, but the best is to format the comparison
results in a way it can easily be used in a visual element.

1. **Define a comparison function:**
    You can define a comparison function to compare specific data nodes of a scenario.
    For example a data node representing a KPI. The comparison function takes as input
    parameters the list of the data referred by the data nodes to compare and returns a
    comparison result.

2. **Configure the scenario with a comparator:**
    The comparison function is then added to the scenario configuration as a scenario
    comparator.

3. **Compare scenarios:**
    At runtime, you can compare the scenarios using the `taipy.compare_scenarios()^`
    function. It takes as input parameters the list of scenarios to compare and
    returns the comparison results.

4. **Visualize the comparison results:**
    The comparison results can be visualized using the various visual elements.

# Example

Let's consider a simple example where a company wants to predict its sales for the next month.
The sales forecasts depend on a weather parameter. The company wants to simulate multiple
scenarios compare the yield revenue.

We can have the following:

- One data node for the weather parameter.
- One data node for the sales predictions.

!!! note "Scenario with Tasks"

    To simplify the use case, we only have data nodes. No data processing is presented in
    this example, and the sales predictions data node is populated manually. However,
    in a real world, the sales predictions would have been generated by a Taipy Task,
    for example using a trained model based on some historical sales data.<br>
    For more details, see the [task orchestration](../task-orchestration/scenario-config.md)
    page.

The following code snippet shows how to compare scenarios:

```python linenums="1"
{%
include-markdown "./code-example/scenario-comparison/comparison-example.py"
comments=false
%}
```
Here is the
<a href="./code-example/scenario-comparison/comparison-example.py" download>complete python code</a>
corresponding to the example.


## Comparator function

User defined functions are used as comparator to compare scenarios on the data nodes
(from the same configuration). The user defined function takes as input parameters
the list of the data referred by the data nodes of each scenario to compare. The
function returns a comparison results in a format that best suits the user needs.

In our example, a user function is defined to compare the scenarios on the sales
predictions data node. The function `compare_revenue` computes the revenue based on
the sales forecast. It takes as input parameters the list of the sales values.
One value per scenario to compare. It returns the comparison results as a dataframe
with the scenario name in a first column and the revenue in a second one. This way,
the comparison results can be easily used in a chart or table visual element.

## Configuration

The scenario configuration is created with the `Config.configure_scenario()` method.
As usual the data node configurations and/or the task configurations are passed as
parameters to the method. In addition, the `comparators` optional parameter is used
to provide comparison functions. Note that multiple comparators can be added.
A dictionary is used to associate the comparison function to the data node configuration
on which it is applied.

In our example, the scenario configuration `scenario_cfg` is created. The `compare_revenue`
function is passed as a comparator. The id of the sales predictions data node configuration
is used as a key in the dictionary.

For more details on how to configure scenarios, see the
[scenario configuration](../sdm/scenario/scenario-config.md) page.

## Comparison

The scenarios are compared using the `taipy.compare_scenarios()` function. The function
takes as input parameters the list of scenarios to compare and returns all the comparison
results in a dictionary. One result per comparator function defined in the scenario
configuration.

In our example, three scenarios (previously created) are compared. We get the comparison result
for the `compare_revenue` function applied to the sales predictions data nodes. The comparison
result is directly stored in the `revenues` variable to be bound to a Taipy visual element.

## User interface

The comparison results can be visualized using the various Taipy visual elements. Any visual
element can be used to display the comparison results depending on the user needs.

In our example, the revenue is formatted as a dataframe, so it can be easily used in Taipy.
We use two visual representations to display the comparison results: a table and a bar chart.
Note that the Python API is used in the example to create the user interface, but the same
interface can be done using the Markdown API.

For more details on the various visual elements, see the
[visual elements](../../../refmans/gui/viselements/index.md) page.
