This page describes how to manage *jobs* in a Taipy application. It explains how to create, read,
delete jobs, and how to access their attributes.

A `Job^` in Taipy represents a unique execution of a task. It is created every time a task is
submitted for execution (either directly or as part of a scenario/sequence). A job holds various
attributes such as the task it is associated with, its status, and the stack trace of any
exceptions.

# Job creation

Every time a task is submitted (through a `Scenario^`, a `Sequence^` or a `Task^` submission),
a new `Job^` entity is instantiated from the `Task^`.

The `Job^` is created using the `submit()^` function, passing a submittable entity (i.e., a
`Task^`, a `Scenario^`, or a `Sequence^`) as an argument. A `Submission^` entity is returned,
holding the list of jobs created.

!!! example

    The code below demonstrates how to create a job by submitting a scenario. The scenario is
    made of a single task that doubles a number. When the scenario is submitted, a submission
    object is returned containing the list of jobs created. In our case, only one job is created.

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%  include-markdown "./code-example/job-creation.py" comments=false %}
    ```

For more details and examples on how to submit scenarios, sequences or tasks, see the
[task orchestration](../../task-orchestration/scenario-submission.md) page.


# Graphical User Interface

Taipy offers a visual element named *job selector* (`job_selector`) dedicated to job management
and monitoring. It is designed to help end-users list, select, filter, and visualize, jobs in
an intuitive way.

The *job selector* displays the list of jobs submitted within a Taipy application. It lists all
the jobs with other related information, in particular the job status, and provides users with
the ability to select a job.

The default usage is really simple. It does not require any specific configuration to get
the following display. However, thanks to its rich configurability, you can customize the
columns to display in job selector.

For more details, see the [job selector](../../../../refmans/gui/viselements/corelements/job_selector.md) page.

# Job attributes
A `Job^` entity ìs identified by a unique identifier `id` that is generated by Taipy.

Here is the list of `Job^`'s main attributes:

- *task*: The `Task^` of the job.
- *force*: The force attribute is `True` if the execution of the job has been forced.
- *creation_date*: The date of the creation of the job with the status `SUBMITTED`.
- *status*: The status of the job.
- *stacktrace*: The stacktrace of the exceptions handled during the execution of the jobs.

## Job Status

- `SUBMITTED`: The job is created but not enqueued for execution.
- `BLOCKED`: The job is blocked because inputs are not ready.
- `PENDING`: The job is waiting for execution.
- `RUNNING`: The job is being executed.
- `CANCELED`: The job was canceled by the user.
- `FAILED`: The job failed due to timeout or execution error.
- `COMPLETED`: The job execution is done and outputs were written.
- `SKIPPED`: The job was and will not be executed.
- `ABANDONED`: The job was abandoned and will not be executed.

When the status of a job changes, the timestamp of the change is recorded. These timestamps can be accessed
using the following properties:

- *submitted_at*: The datetime when the job was submitted.
- *run_at*: The datetime when the job started running.
- *finished_at*: The datetime when the job finished.
- *execution_duration*: The duration of the job execution in seconds, which is the difference between
  the *finished_at* and *run_at* timestamps. If the job is not finished, the duration is the difference
  between the current time and the *run_at* timestamp.
- *pending_duration*: The duration of the job in the pending state in seconds, which is the duration between
  the `PENDING` status and the `RUNNING` status. If the job is pending, the duration is the difference between
  the current time and the datetime when the job was in the `PENDING` status.
- *blocked_duration*: The duration of the job in the blocked state in seconds, which is the duration between
  the `BLOCKED` status and the `PENDING` status. If the job is blocked, the duration is the difference between
  the current time and the datetime when the job was in the `BLOCKED` status.

# Get/Delete Job

Three methods are available to retrieve jobs:

- You can get all of them with `taipy.get_jobs()^`.
- You can get the latest job of a Task with `taipy.get_latest_job()^`.
- You can retrieve a job from its id by using the `taipy.get()^` method.

A Job can be deleted using the `taipy.delete_job()^` method. You can also delete all jobs
with `taipy.delete_jobs()^`.

Deleting a Job can raise an `JobNotDeletedException^` if the `Status^` of the Job is not
`SKIPPED`, `COMPLETED` or `FAILED`. You can overcome this behaviour by forcing the deletion
with the _force_ parameter set to True: `taipy.delete_job(job, force=True)`.

!!! example

    The code below demonstrates how to get and delete a job.

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%  include-markdown "./code-example/get-delete.py" comments=false %}
    ```

# Cancel Job

A job with the following statuses `SUBMITTED`, `PENDING`, or `BLOCKED` can be cancelled
using the `taipy.cancel_job(job)^` function.

When canceling a job, you will set the `Status^` of subsequent jobs of the canceled job
to `ABANDONED`. However, a job whose status is `RUNNING`, `COMPLETED`, `SKIPPED`, `FAILED`,
`CANCELED`, or `ABANDONED`, cannot be canceled.
When the cancel method is called on a job with its status being either `RUNNING`, `COMPLETED`,
or `SKIPPED`, its subsequent jobs will be abandoned while its status remains unchanged.

!!! example "Canceling a job"

    The code below demonstrates how to cancel a job.

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%  include-markdown "./code-example/cancel.py" comments=false %}
    ```

    IT produces the following output:

    ```
    (1) Number of jobs: 0.
    (2) Number of jobs: 2.
    (3) Status of job double_task: Status.RUNNING
    (4) Status of job print_task: Status.BLOCKED
    (5) Status of job double_task: Status.COMPLETED
    (6) Status of job print_task: Status.CANCELED
    ```

!!! example "Canceling a running job"

    The code below demonstrates how to cancel a running job.

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%  include-markdown "./code-example/cancel-running.py" comments=false %}
    ```

    This example produces the following output:

    ```
    (1) Number of jobs: 0.
    (2) Number of jobs: 2.
    (3) Status of job double_task: Status.RUNNING
    (4) Status of job print_task: Status.BLOCKED
    (5) Status of job double_task: Status.COMPLETED
    (6) Status of job print_task: Status.ABANDONED
    ```

# Subscribe to job execution

You can subscribe to a job status changes if you want a user defined function
to be called on each status change.

For more details and examples, see the
[job subscription](../../task-orchestration/scenario-submission.md#subscribe-to-job-execution)
section.
