This page describes how to manage *cycles* in Taipy.

A `Scenario^` in Taipy represents an instance of a business case that an end-user wants
to analyze, simulate, compare or solve. Some scenarios are recurrent and can be
associated with a period of time called a `Cycle^`. For example, a monthly scenario
can model a sales forecast problem where some predictions must be published every month.

A `Cycle^` represents a period of time associated with a scenario. *Cycles* are created
and attached to scenarios at their creation.

!!! note

    When creating multiple scenarios at the same time period, Taipy automatically
    re uses the existing cycle if it exists, and attaches the new scenario to it.

    That means *cycles* are shared between multiple scenarios. For example, multiple
    sales forecast scenarios can be attached to the same monthly cycle. Each one
    forecasting sales under different conditions.

For more details on how recurrent scenarios, please refer to the
[recurrent scenarios](../../what-if-analysis/scenarios-and-cycles.md) page.

# Cycle attributes

A cycle is identified by a unique identifier `id` that was generated by Taipy. A cycle also
holds various attributes and properties, each accessible as an attribute of the cycle:

- _**frequency**_ corresponds to the cycle `Frequency^`. It is populated at the cycle
    creation using the scenario frequency that triggered the cycle creation.
- _**creation_date**_ corresponds to the date-time of the creation of the cycle.
- _**start_date**_ corresponds to the date and time of the start of the cycle.
- _**end_date**_ corresponds to the date and time of the end of the cycle.
- _**name**_ corresponds to a human-readable name of the cycle.
- Each property of the _**properties'**_ dictionary is also directly exposed as an attribute.

!!! example

    The code below uses the `monthly_scenario_cfg` configuration imported from the
    <a href="../code-example/index/my_config.py" download>`my_config.py`</a>
    module to show how to create a recurrent scenario attached to a cycle.

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%  include-markdown "./code-example/attributes.py" comments=false %}
    ```

    The scenario configuration has a monthly frequency, so the scenario is associated
    with the monthly cycle corresponding to the month of the scenario creation date.

# Get cycles

## Get by id

The basic method to get a cycle is from its id by using the `taipy.get()^` method.

## Get by scenario

A parent `Cycle^` can be retrieved from a scenario by using the `Scenario.cycle`
property.

!!! example

    The code below uses the `monthly_scenario_cfg` configuration imported from the
    <a href="../code-example/index/my_config.py" download>`my_config.py`</a>
    module to show how to get a cycle from its id.

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%  include-markdown "./code-example/get-by-id.py" comments=false %}
    ```

    Here, `cycle_retrieved` equals `cycle`.

Here, the two variables `cycle` and `cycle_retrieved` are equal.

## Get all cycles

All the cycles can be retrieved using the method `taipy.get_cycles()^`. This method returns
the list of all existing cycles.

# Delete a cycle

A cycle can be deleted by using `taipy.delete()^` which takes the cycle id as a parameter.
The deletion is also propagated to the nested scenarios, sequences, tasks, data nodes, and
jobs if they are not shared with any other cycles.
